docs(css): Add docs for audio pseudo-classes (#27237)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/_colon_volume-locked/index.md

---
title: ":volume-locked"
slug: Web/CSS/:volume-locked
page-type: css-pseudo-class
browser-compat: css.selectors.volume-locked
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`:volume-locked`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [pseudo-class](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-classes) selector represents an element that is capable of making sound, such as {{htmlelement("audio")}} or {{htmlelement("video")}}, but the audio volume of the media element is currently "locked" by the user.

Reviewer: link to a resource that explains volume locking.

Author: This is browser / OS specific. Added some hints in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/27237/commits/3a9ec8ace6665e3eaa5a502d0288f1faf534c034

Users can indicate that the user agent overrides the volume of the element and use a preferred volume instead of the volume specified by the page author.

Volume-locked is different from {{cssxref(":muted")}} in that the page author does not have control over the volume of the media element.

## Syntax

```css
:volume-locked {
  /* ... */
}
```

## Examples

### CSS

```css
:volume-locked {
  border: 5px solid green;
}

video:volume-locked {
  border: 5px solid aqua;
}
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{cssxref(":buffering")}}
- {{cssxref(":muted")}}
- {{cssxref(":paused")}}
- {{cssxref(":playing")}}
- {{cssxref(":seeking")}}

> - {{cssxref(":stalled")}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {{cssxref(":stalled")}}
- [CSS selectors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Selectors)
```

---
title: ":volume-locked"
slug: Web/CSS/:volume-locked
page-type: css-pseudo-class
browser-compat: css.selectors.volume-locked
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`:volume-locked`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [pseudo-class](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-classes) selector represents an element that is capable of making sound, such as {{htmlelement("audio")}} or {{htmlelement("video")}}, but the audio volume of the media element is currently "locked" by the user.

> User agents may set media [`muted`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLMediaElement/muted) or [`volume`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLMediaElement/volume) values according to user preferences (e.g. remembering the last set value across sessions, on a per-site basis or otherwise).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User agents may set media [`muted`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLMediaElement/muted) or [`volume`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLMediaElement/volume) values according to user preferences (e.g., remembering the last set value across sessions, on a per-site basis, or otherwise).
```

> An element that is `:volume-locked` cannot be muted, un-muted or have its volume changed via JavaScript because of an operating system or user agent preference.

Reviewer: This isn't fully clear to me. Is this suggested edit accurate? 

```suggestion
An element that is `:volume-locked` cannot be muted, un-muted, or have its volume changed via JavaScript. The locked status is an operating system or user agent preference.
```

Author: It's hard to get documentation about this to clearly state that, but indeed, that's what happens as far as I can tell. A user sets through their OS / browser settings preferences like "mute auto-playing video" and the webpage cannot override this.

## Syntax

```css
:volume-locked {
  /* ... */
}
```

## Examples

### CSS

```css
:volume-locked {
  border: 5px solid green;
}

video:volume-locked {
  border: 5px solid aqua;
}
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{cssxref(":buffering")}}
- {{cssxref(":muted")}}
- {{cssxref(":paused")}}
- {{cssxref(":playing")}}
- {{cssxref(":seeking")}}
- {{cssxref(":stalled")}}

> - [CSS selectors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Selectors)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CSS selectors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_selectors)
```
